---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/force-abilities-and-phenomena/wall-of-light/","tags":["light","alter","forcepower"],"noteIcon":"saber1"}
---

- [When Eden Was Lost (Ao3)](https://archiveofourown.org/works/19334440/chapters/45992584)
- Also known as *Band of light*
# Wall of light
A wall of light is an immense manifestation of potentially destructive Light side Force energy created by the focused power of a united Jedi front. When performed successfully, a wall of light allows participants to effectively contain or purge the power of the Dark side from a specific location, or sever an especially dangerous darksider from their Force connection. It was considered one of the Jedi's most devastating offensive abilities during the [[Organizations/Old Republic\|Old Republic]] era. 

A wall of light could be used to purge and sterilize a celestial body, often besieging the planet with flames and violent weather phenomena that literally burns away the Dark side energy. Darksiders subjected to the wall of light may find themselves completed blocked from the Force. Similarly, [[Force Abilities & Phenomena/Force ghost\|Sith ghosts]] can be contained or destroyed with a wall of light. 

In rare and often dire circumstances, an individual Jedi can summon a wall of light with their own power, but the results are potentially catastrophic. Walls of light generated by a lone Jedi are uncontrollable once released and the effort to produce one alone may kill the practitioner. 

_"When you feel the dark side energies turned against you, you must use your Jedi abilities to take power away from an opponent, rather than to inflict harm. This technique blinds your enemy to the Force with a wall of light, a permanent blockage if you so choose, rendering him unable to use Jedi powers. It is difficult. And it is the most devastating attack possible using the powers of the light side."_ ― Jedi Knight Odan-Urr, recorded in the [[Library/Holocrons/Tedryn Holocron\|Tedryn Holocron]]